
# Milestone B3

This milestone focuses on implementing a third-party API in the app and on testing it.

You must complete the tasks below for this milestone.
We provide an estimated amount of time for each step&mdash;after you complete a step, fill in the _actual_ time you spent in the `actualTimeB3.csv` file that is in the top folder of your individual repo.
Make sure you preserve the structure of the CSV file.

<table>
    <colgroup>
      <col style="width:5%; text-align:center">
      <col style="width:55%">
      <col style="width:20%; text-align:center">
      <col style="width:20%">
    </colgroup>
    <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Step</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Estimated time (minutes)</th>
      <th>Actual time (minutes)</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Review <a href="/bootcamp/docs/CollaborativeDevelopment.md">Collaborative Development</a> theory</td>
      <td>10</td>
      <td rowspan="8">Update <code>actualTimeB3.csv</code> file in your individual repo</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>2</td>
      <td><a href="#code-review-a-pr">Code-review a PR</a></td>
      <td>60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Implement the <a href="1-Authentication.md">Authentication</a> user story</td>
      <td>180</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>Implement the <a href="2-AccessControl.md">Access Control</a> user story</td>
      <td>60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>Implement the <a href="3-LocationBasedTodos.md">Reverse geocoding</a> user story</td>
      <td>150</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>Implement the <a href="4-GoogleMaps.md">Maps</a> user story</td>
      <td>60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>Review <a href="../../docs/UnitTesting.md"> Unit Testing </a> and  <a href="../../docs/AndroidTesting.md"> Android Testing</td>
      <td>60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>8</td>
      <td><a href="#testing">Test your implementation</a></td>
      <td>180</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Code-Review a PR

We ask that you review a Pull Request (PR) made by our team on your repository.
This PR introduces a calendar-like feature that displays your ToDos in a timeline view.
The code contains several issues, and we will grade how carefully you identify these issues, the changes you request, and how you do it.

We recommend that you start by reading the PR description using GitHub's web interface (see the "Pull requests" tab at the top) to understand what it's about.
Next, run and test the code. The easiest way to do this is using a `git fetch origin` followed by a `git switch calendar`.
Once you're on the `calendar` branch, integrate the `CalendarToDo` component into your navigation implementation to enable the calendar feature in your app.
After you've played around with the feature, start your code review through the web interface.
For example, you can click on "Files changed" to view the file affected by this PR and start commenting on the code.

After you finished your review, answer the multiple-choice questions in the `prReviewMCQ.md` file at the top level of your repo. 
These questions are designed to help you identify mistakes and propose improvements during the review.
The questions do **not** cover all the issues in the PR&mdash;you are expected to find additional ones.
> [!WARNING]
> Do not merge the PR. If you do so accidentally, you must [revert](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/reverting-a-pull-request) it before the deadline.

## Testing

You are required to implement your own tests to increase the code coverage for the parts of the code you have developed. Coverage will be taken into account when grading B3, so it’s important that your tests thoroughly cover the new functionality you’ve implemented, including corner cases.

You should not modify the provided test files. Instead, create new test files to implement your own tests. This will allow you to maintain the integrity of the provided tests while ensuring you are able to increase the coverage with your own testing strategies.
To check your coverage, run the Gradle tasks `check`, `connectCheck`, and `jacocoTestReport`, and then inspect the `index.html` generated by JaCoCo.

## B3 Grading

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Automated grading will apply to the `main` branch of your repo, based on the last commit you make and push **before 23:59 on 29.09.2025**.
> <br>Do not upgrade Gradle, because that will break the test framework and cause you to get 0 points.

We use the belt system described in the [README](../../README.md) to grade your Bootcamp.

### Requirements

- <span style="background-color: #f2f2f2;">White Belt</span>: Pass all the public B1 and  B2 tests
- <span style="background-color: #FCE883;">Yellow Belt</span>: In addition to White,
  - Pass all the public and staff B3 tests for [Authentication](1-Authentication.md)
  - You reviewed the PR and completed `prReviewMCQ.md`
  - Your B3 commit messages are acceptable
- <span style="background-color: #77DD77;">Green Belt</span>: In addition to Yellow,
  - Pass all the public B3 tests for [Access Control](2-AccessControl.md)
  - Pass all the public and staff B3 tests for [LocationBasedTodos](3-LocationBasedTodos.md)
  - Your B3 commit messages are good
- <span style="background-color: #87CEFA;">Blue Belt</span>: In addition to Green,
  - Pass all the public and staff B3 tests for [Google Maps](4-GoogleMaps.md)
  - Reach 85% statement (line) coverage
  - Your B3 commit messages are good
- <span style="background-color: #3F3F3F; color: white;">Black Belt</span>: In addition to Blue,
  - Reach 65% branch coverage
  - Your B3 commit messages are perfect
