# Project Milestone M2

_Last update: October 31, 2025_

Your project has three milestones (see [project README](./README.md)), and this handout concerns the second milestone, named M2.
It covers three sprints: S3, S4, and S5.

## Due Date

Friday 14.11.2025 at 08:45

## Overview

At this stage, you've developed the foundation of your app and received initial feedback from your coaches to refine your coding practices and Scrum processes.
You now have a better understanding of how to collaborate with your teammates and ensure a smooth workflow.

Continue soliciting informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches every week on how things are going. 
You can do this both during the weekly meetings and outside the formal meetings.

## M2 Deliverables

Do not view the milestone as some big deadline where you turn in everything you've done so far.
Instead, you should view it like any other Sprint Review: a checkpoint on the way to your final goal.
This implies that you should treat the Sprint Review very seriously, not that you should treat the milestone less seriously.

Here is a list of items that your _team_ will need to prepare for M2, in order to make sure you're on-track.
These should already be familiar from the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md).


1. Updated Figma and architecture diagram reflecting the current state of your app ➡︎ linked from your project's GitHub wiki
2. Up-to-date Product Backlog ➡︎ _your GitHub Scrum board_
3. S6 Backlog with all tasks assigned, tagged, and estimated ➡︎ _your GitHub Scrum board_
4. Code repo with functional CI pipeline, code analyzed by Sonar, tested with at least 2 meaningful end-to-end tests (including the one from M1), and >80% line test coverage in Sonar ➡︎ _GitHub_
5. Working, stable APK generated by the CI, featuring at least one epic ➡︎ _GitHub Actions artifacts_
6. Scrum process documents ➡︎ _provided Google sheets_, shared with swent-staff@dslab.org
   - one documented stand-up meeting for each of the three Sprints
   - one documented Sprint Retrospective for each of the three Sprints
7. Implementation ➡︎ _your GitHub repo_
   - uses ≥1 public cloud service (e.g., Firebase)
   - uses ≥1 phone sensor (e.g., GPS, camera, mic, ...)
   - has a concept of authentication

Additionally, each _individual_ team member should prepare the following:

1. An individual Retrospective for each of the three Sprints ➡︎ _provided Google sheet_, shared with swent-staff@dslab.org only
2. Code: ≥1 PR per Sprint, merged into `main`  ➡︎ _your GitHub repo_
3. Reviews: ≥1 reviewed PR per Sprint, completed latest 24 hours before the M2 deadline ➡︎ _your GitHub repo_

## Grading

> [!NOTE] 
> In SwEnt, building an Android app serves primarily as a concrete context for learning the process of how to turn ideas into products, as a team.  Grading places great emphasis on this process.

The breakdown of the team and individual grades for M2 is as follows:

<table style="table-layout:fixed; width:360px;">
  <colgroup>
    <col style="width:80%">
    <col style="width:20%">
  </colgroup>
  <tr><th style="text-align:center;">Team Grade</th>          <th style="width:20%; text-align:right;">100%</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Implementation (APK, code quality<sup>1</sup>)</td>             <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">40%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Features<sup>2</sup></td>                           <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Figma and architecture diagram</td>                 <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog</td>               <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Scrum process (documents, autonomy<sup>3</sup>)</td><td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Consistent delivery of value<sup>4</sup></td>       <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
</table>  

<table style="table-layout:fixed; width:360px;">
  <colgroup>
    <col style="width:80%">
    <col style="width:20%">
  </colgroup>
  <tr><th style="text-align:center;">Individual Grade</th>    <th style="width:20%; text-align:right;">100%</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Code PRs</th>                                       <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">35%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>PR reviews</th>                                     <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">30%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Individual Retrospectives</th>                      <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Participation</th>                                  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Responsibility</th>                                 <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">15%</td></tr>
</table>  

> [!NOTE]
> A couple of reminders: Late submissions will be penalized 2% per hour of lateness, and this rule applies to both team and individual submissions. It is the team's collective responsibility to submit the team deliverables on time.

<sup>1</sup>
Code quality includes design, code smells, consistent and good code conventions, automated program analysis (Sonar), test coverage, etc.

<sup>2</sup>
We will evaluate the features you implemented.
We will want to see that you completed at least one [epic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pH4d5dYxSRM).
We will evaluate how well the features align with the overall goal of your app and the objectives of the course.

<sup>3</sup>
The goal of SwEnt is to enable you, as a team, to run a software project from A-to-Z on your own.
We therefore expect that you start to run and organize the Sprint Review and Retrospective on your own.
The coaches will watch and possibly ask questions.
Evaluation of your autonomy will include an assessment of your ability to define precise user stories, prioritize them in your PB, and scope them well enough to be broken down into Sprint tasks.
We will also evaluate your ability to take on the right amount of work and deliver by the end of the Sprint a concrete value Increment.

<sup>4</sup>
We will evaluate your Increment for each of the three Sprints and assess the amount of value it delivers to the app, from the perspective of the PB. You need to meaningfully increase the value of your app in every Sprint.

You can refer back to the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) if any of the items above are unclear, as we do not repeat the M1 explanations here.
