# Project Milestone M3

_Last update: December 15, 2025_

Your project has three milestones (see the [project README](./README.md)), and this handout concerns the third and last milestone, named M3.

## Due Date

Thursday 18.12.2025 at 08:45

## Overview
M3 is the culmination of your hands-on journey in SwEnt, in which you transform your initial concept into a refined app ready for real users.
This milestone carries the most weight among the three, as it evaluates not only the progress of the last five Sprints but also the final output of your entire course project. 
By now, you should have a solid command of Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork. 
M3 is the final stretch, where you apply your skills to deliver a high-quality, user-ready application.

>[!NOTE]
> The Battle of the Apps (BOTA) is an optional competition in which your team presents their app to an audience consisting of your peers and outside visitors. 
You can find all the details [here](BOTA.md).

Continue soliciting informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches every week on how things are going. 
You can do this both during the weekly meetings and outside the formal meetings.

## M3 Deliverables

The final Sprint (S10) is a release Sprint.

The end of a Sprint is defined as 8:45 on the Friday of the corresponding Sprint review.

Here is a list of items that your _team_ will need to prepare for M3.
These should already be familiar from the deliverables for [M1](M1.md) and [M2](M2.md).

1. Up-to-date documentation of your app ➡︎ _GitHub wiki_
2. Code repo with functional CI pipeline, code analyzed by Sonar, tested with at least 4 meaningful end-to-end tests (including the ones from previous milestones), and >80% line test coverage in Sonar ➡︎ _GitHub_
3. High-quality APK generated by the CI, featuring at least two epics, ready to run on any Android smartphone ➡︎ _GitHub Actions artifacts_
4. Scrum process documents ➡︎ _provided Google sheets_ shared with swent-staff@dslab.org
   - one documented stand-up meeting for each of the five Sprints
   - one documented Sprint Retrospective for each of the five Sprints
   - do not send the sheets to swent-staff !
5. Implementation ➡︎ _GitHub repo_
   - offline mode is fully implemented
   - supports multiple users and authentication
   - uses ≥1 public cloud service (e.g., Firebase) in addition to authentication
   - uses meaningfully ≥1 phone sensor (e.g., GPS, accelerometer, camera, mic, ...)

Additionally, each _individual_ team member should prepare the following:

1. An individual Retrospective for Sprint S9 ➡︎ _provided Google sheet_, shared with swent-staff@dslab.org only
   - do not send the sheets to swent-staff !
2. Code: ≥1 PR in each Sprint, ready for review ≥24h before the end of the Sprint, merged into `main` before the end of the Sprint ➡︎ _GitHub repo_
3. Reviews: ≥1 reviewed PR in each Sprint ➡︎ _GitHub repo_
4. Complete online survey ➡︎ _[Moodle survey](https://moodle.epfl.ch/mod/questionnaire/view.php?id=1297936)_ 

## Grading

The breakdown of the team and individual grades for M3 is as follows:

<table style="table-layout:fixed; width:360px;">
  <colgroup>
    <col style="width:80%">
    <col style="width:20%">
  </colgroup>
  <tr><th style="text-align:center;">Team Grade</th>   <th style="width:20%; text-align:right;">100%</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Completeness<sup>1</sup></td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Functionality<sup>2</sup></td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>User Experience<sup>3</sup></td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">5%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Design and Maintainability<sup>4</sup></td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>QA (Testing)</td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Documentation<sup>5</sup></td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">10%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Autonomy</td>  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">5%</td></tr>
</table>  

<table style="table-layout:fixed; width:360px;">
  <colgroup>
    <col style="width:80%">
    <col style="width:20%">
  </colgroup>
  <tr><th style="text-align:center;">Individual Grade</th>    <th style="width:20%; text-align:right;">100%</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Code PRs</th>                                       <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">35%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Code-PR reviews</th>                                <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">30%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Participation</th>                                  <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">15%</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Responsibility</th>                                 <td style="width:20%; text-align:right;">20%</td></tr>
</table>  

> [!NOTE]
> A couple of reminders: <br>A late submission will result in a penalty of 2% per hour of lateness, applied to the overall grade for M3.
  This rule applies separately to both team and individual submissions.
  <br>It is the team's collective responsibility to submit the team deliverables on time.

<sup>1</sup>
At the beginning of the course, we set the expectation that your app makes effective use of public cloud services, seamlessly transitions between online and offline mode, and makes meaningful use of the sensors. Feature-wise, it should have at least two meaningful epics implemented. We will evaluate if you have developed both epics and if their depth and complexity is in-line with expectations. We suggest that you revisit with your coaches what constitutes a meaningful epic and whether you are on track to meet expectations by the end of this milestone. The assessment will be primarily based on the APK, which is what users get.

<sup>2</sup>
Your app should work end-to-end seamlessly and coherently. Users should be able to create accounts, interact with the app and other users in natural and predictable ways, store and retrieve their data/information, be able to switch from one device to another, etc. The provided functionality should work reliably and survive the stress imposed by clueless users.

<sup>3</sup>
As a final release to put in the hands of real users, your app must have great usability. Ensure that the app is intuitive, allowing even first-time users to navigate easily without assistance. Focus on providing a streamlined experience that promotes seamless interaction with the app.

<sup>4</sup>
To make your code easy to understand, modify, and maintain, it must be modular, employ clear naming, and have concise functions.
Employ clean design patterns. 
Keep each function focused on a single responsibility, to improve readability and debugging.
Avoid large classes or methods by breaking down complex ones into smaller, reusable components. 
Use meaningful, descriptive names for variables, functions, and classes, to convey their purpose at a glance.
Make sure you are consistent in the use of coding conventions. 

<sup>5</sup>
Your code repository should have comprehensive documentation across all levels of the app. 
This includes detailed inline comments, as well as an organized README that provides an overview of the app’s architecture and key components. 
The README should serve as a central guide, including resources like the Figma and an architecture diagram, both of which should be up-to-date to accurately represent the app's final state. 
This documentation approach ensures that new contributors can quickly understand the app's structure and design, making onboarding and future development smoother.

Remember that many of the items above were explained in the deliverables for [M1](M1.md) and [M2](M2.md), so do revisit them if anything is unclear.
